My name is Ben Goldberg and I'm a staff engineer at SpotHero.
I work on our platform team where I help lead efforts
around application development and data engineering.
The skills that we're going to learn about in this course are
the same skills that I use on a daily basis on my work.
Data streaming is core to most of the applications that we're
building at SpotHero and our latest generation applications.
That's both in data engineering world and also on the web application side.
Data streaming is what allows us to create high-quality,
fast-moving applications that scale the size of our business.
The skills that we're going to learn about in this class
including things like Apache Kafka,
and KSQL, and Faust.
These skills are super important in almost all data engineering organizations today.
The industry is rapidly moving towards a place where
stream processing is an important part of most workloads,
and the fact of the matter is most people don't have a lot of
experience with it yet outside of the big companies in the industry.
So the tools that we're going to review are not only going to help you understand how
to do stream processing because it's interesting and a new concept to understand,
but it's also going to make you very attractive to potential employers who are actually
really seeking these skills out to
actually level up and upgrade their own data engineering teams.
So after completing this course and the nano degree program,
students will be able to take the skills they have and level up at their own job,
or there'll be able to go on apply it to
data engineering jobs that require stream processing skills.
So even if it doesn't require stream processing skills,
you're going to know how to use Apache Kafka really well,
which is incredibly important tool in a data engineering industry.
So what I would say is,
you'll not only be able to apply to data engineering jobs
which require stream processing,
but the skills you'll learn here are also
increasingly important in just general web development.
So if you're working on back-end servers and you want to
use stream processing techniques this course is
also going to help you understand those concepts
and make those skills more applicable to your daily work.
When people in the industry are looking to hire for data streaming jobs,
they're looking for a couple of things.
First and foremost, they want to see that you have some experience with the tools.
So they want to see that you know how to use Apache Kafka,
and they want to see that you know a tool like
KSQL or one of the equivalent tools in that ecosystem.
In addition, it's also has to have some familiarity with the Kafka ecosystem in general.
So things like Kafka Connect,
and REST Proxy, and Schema Registry.
Beyond just that understanding
just the general concepts of stream processing is really important.
So being able to sort of describe how stream processing differs from batch processing,
and how batch processing differs from stream processing,
and how the two are not the same as each other,
but also how they can be used together
in complimentary terms because they're not necessarily competing skills.
I think the third and final thing is that once you have these data streaming skills,
and hopefully also have those batch processing skills,
you can actually go into
your organization and communicate strongly with those around you.
So data engineering is interesting because
you're an engineer but you're typically working with people in the business.
So business analysts, or the marketing team,
or even other engineers to try and provide them
information that makes them able to do their job better.
So to do that, you need to be able to just talk to
people and understand what they're actually looking to get,
and vice versa be able to explain to them in
plain English why it is what you're doing matters.
So I think those three skills with the tech skills,
it's the conceptual skills,
and it's those communication skills.
Those are the three things that a well-rounded candidate will
be able to show to any potential employer.
So a typical day at work for me is largely
based around still doing some day-to-day coding,
but there's also a lot of design and
architecture put into the work that I'm doing on a daily basis.
So I'm thinking about how can I use stream processing tools to make it to
that SpotHero where I work can make our applications more scalable,
and run faster, and respond to our client systems faster.
So that could be a web request,
it could also be that we have someone in the business who has a data need and we
want to produce that insight to them faster than once an hour or once a day.
Stream processing lets us actually give those results in real-time.
So on a day-to-day basis,
I do spend a lot time thinking about how we can do that and helping educate
others in our company about how they can make that a possibility,
but I also in day-to-day actually using these skills to build out those tools myself.
I think the most rewarding thing about being
a data engineer and being able to actually apply these skills on
a day-to-day basis is the fact that you can see how it
actually impacts other people's ability to successfully do their jobs.
It can turn tasks that used to be difficult and arduous,
or imprecise into things that are easy for people to get done,
or they don't have to do it all anymore.
So for example, there might have been somebody who used to handbill
that CSV or Excel spreadsheet that captured some sort of information,
and it was their least favorite thing to do,
and it took them four hours every Friday.
But instead we can write some code that not only does that on a continual basis,
but actually frees this person up to not have to do this arduous,
repetitive work that they don't actually enjoy.
So whenever I'm able to help someone out in
that regard and actually free them up to do what they enjoying what they're good at,
I think that's really my favorite part of this job.
One of my favorite anecdotes are stories from SpotHero is when we
were still a tiny little startup and we had a team of five or six engineers,
we would send up these sandboxes for us to test against in Digital Ocean.
We'd use Amazon's Route 53 to give a DNS name to the sandboxes.
So you'd have Ben's cool sandbox,
and then this sandbox environment domain name.
So when we're done we would tear down the sandbox environment but sometimes we'd forget,
we didn't have the whole thing automate so sometimes we'd
forget to get rid of this specific DNS entry.
So if you forgot about that and then visited it like six months later,
they'll point specific IP addresses.
So other companies would stand up machines in
their AWS accounts and we would end up pointing to their web servers.
So one time I was working on I don't remember what the name of the sandbox was,
but I went to Ben's cool sandbox dot domain name,
and it was like a start-up that was trying to sell machine learning sprinkler system,
and I just remember thinking, "Why is Ben's cool sandbox pointing to a machine?"
It took us a little while to figure out what's going on,
but we then discovered that we had a whole bunch of
other different DNS names that we're pointing to a bunch of random websites.
I have to say that was a really entertaining days because we got to see all of
the things that we're supposed to be SpotHero.
But they were actually machine-learning
sprinkler systems or whatever other random things that you can point to on the internet.
So that was a pretty entertaining day I have to say,
we found a lot of cool sites.
I think my favorite thing about the project for this course is the fact that you get to
use all the tools that you've learned about in the actual course itself,
but you're also going to get a taste for all the tools which you can expect to make
use of in your day-to-day as someone who's doing stream processing.
So you're going to touch Kafka Connect,
you're going to touch Kafka, you're going to touch REST Proxy, KSQL, and Faust.
You're going to do the production,
and the consumption side of Kafka,
and you're going to fill stream processing on top of that consumer-producer relationship.
So it's fun and you're going to get to see how all of these tools get used.
So once you're done with this project you'll be able to hopefully take
those skills and actually apply them to your own domain.
So one of my favorite things about working with Udacity is that I
have the opportunity to teach not just a room full of people,
or give a talk at a meet up,
but actually reach a large audience of
people who are interested in the same thing as I am.
So when I was first starting out in the space whether it's data engineering,
or it's data streaming,
the amount of content that was out there,
it just really wasn't that big.
So I didn't have the opportunity to have something like this.
So it's really exciting for me to be able to work with Udacity,
and actually increase the amount and quality of the content available in this area.
Because these skills are super important,
and it's really fun to work in stream processing.
So I'm excited to have the opportunity to actually
work with Udacity to bring this content to all the students.
I think the best thing about this course is
the fact that we're going to go over Kafka in so much detail.
So even if you go through this course and you
don't get to use KSQL or stream processing tools right away,
Kafka is such an important tool in our industry and is growing so
rapidly that that skill you're
going to take it away and probably use it for years to come.
So I think that's personally my favorite thing is that you're
going to get such a strong foundation in this really excellent tool.
Student should take this course so that they can get
a strong foundation in Apache Kafka and its ecosystem.
Which I always tell everybody it's
a super important tool in today's software engineering,
a tool-set generally speaking,
and it's only going to become more important I think over time.
I think it's also worth understanding
the concepts and fundamentals around stream processing.
Even if you don't plan on taking those skills and using them at
your day job tomorrow or even six months from now,
the industry is really headed in this direction.
Our ability to react to real time data is critical,
and even understanding those concepts will help you better build your applications.
Even if you're not able to take use of them right now,
at some point in the future as your role or your company grows,
there's a pretty good likelihood you're going to encounter these skills.